Why: LifeWeb is dedicated to enabling self-organization of communities, at bioregional scales (somewhere between local and global), dedicated to manifesting regenerative--Life-affirming--patterns in the world. 

What: LifeWeb is an online space of pure potential (an uncontested space, "above" or "outside" the internet), where the thickness of relations we can only currently intuit become visible. 

How: LifeWeb is built around a continuous pathway, that guides participants as they inhabit, that is, living into the fullness of their Being: a transformative journey from self-actualization to system-actualization. 

Process: The complete LifeWeb journey spans over 12 steps, divided into 3 segments (self, field, system) as follows:

A. Co-here-ing wholeness: Finding your here together
In the first segment of the LifeWeb pathway (steps 1-4), Persons move from fragmented experience of reality* towards falling into place within the nested wholes. 
*It is because we do onto the world as fragments, that we are automatically destructive

By committing to inhabit LifeWeb, persons agree to participate radically, from their whole being. Their presence initiates a process revealing and authenticating their relations (and vice-versa), which actively generates a relational "map" for navigating the complex of wholeness of which they are truly a part of in the real world.

B. Activating Being: Discovering how immense we really are
In the second segment of the LifeWeb pathway (steps 5-8), Persons move from presence in their nested wholes towards radical participation within transformative ecosystems.

As Participants progress through the process of differentiation, there is an incremental bandwidth in relational capacity between nodes. This is a process that moves in two opposite, yet complimentary directions. There is a deepening of each persons self-knowledge of who they are and what they offer most uniquely. This is a broadening movement accomplished via a thickening of a field of relations, whose interactions, create opportunities for mirroring of self-knowledge of each person in relation within a larger whole they participate in together. 

C. 
In the third segment of the of LifeWeb pathway