Framework:
Pattern suggests the maker of patterns. Our contemplation of experience cannot rest upon the recognition that there is a source of order, since order is not ultimate. That which can separate order from disorder is the power to create patterns. We cannot be directly aware of this power except in our own consciousness; but we can infer its presence from our observation of the world-order. Creativity, as Berdyaev has rightly taught, cannot be the ultimate category. "Only the recognition of created being permits an original creative act in being, an act which produces something new and unprecedented. If everything in being was not created, but had always existed, the very idea of creativity could not have been born in the world." "In every creative act, there is absolute gain, something added."* The word 'absolute' here falsifies the picture, nevertheless we must understand that in creativity there is an authentic addition to the sum total of experience; but this must remain subject to the condition of its being a possible addition. This condition is guaranteed by the category of pattern that stands towards creativity as potentiality stands towards repetition. We shall therefore take as our tenth category of experience the element of creativity which lies behind all patterns. The principle of creativity reads:
In all experience there is evidence of a creative activity that is not only the source of order but also the vehicle of disorder. The polar character of creativity calls for a system of not less than ten terms for its manifestation.+
+ E.g. the eightfold individuality together with the polar force of order-disorder that is the source of pattern. We shall see later that creativity cannot be the source of a new Reality.
*source: J. G. Bennett's Dramatic Universe, Vol 1: The Foundations of Natural Philosophy
_______________________
LifeWeb:
Value-adding process-->  transcendence into co-creating a new reality in the world from the patterns generated in the LifeWeb... (MY: expand)
_______________________
More from Bennett:
If we seek to comprehend the nature of solar existence, we should consider first two obvious characteristics, evident even to a cursory examination. One outstanding feature is the prodigious and unceasing outpouring of energy, and the other is the remoteness of the sun from its nearest neighbours.

(...)

The sun moves in the galaxy alone and self-sufficient, and yet it is the manifestation of the universal pattern that we can find throughout the starry universe. Its isolation is the condition of its creative power, which would be nothing if it were not free. On the other hand, it appears that the creativity of the sun is purchased at the price of a ceaseless outpouring of its own substance without having passed through the stage of actualization. Furthermore, the creativity of the sun is—as we have seen —but a minute particle of the potentialities of all existence, and therefore it can be completely specific and individualized, having its own role to play distinct from that of any other star. The sun is able to evoke in the worlds subordinate to itself a creative activity that makes possible the arising of sentient and conscious experience.

The two remarkable properties that we have been considering in some detail enable us to specify more closely the meaning of creativity as applied to the stars. Creativity is the power to evolve a pattern that remains omnipotent in so far as it leaves open the details of actualization. Again we may say that a pattern is a condition to which events must conform, whereas creativity is a demand that events should occur. Our increased detailed knowledge of the sun and its influence upon the planetary world strengthens the conviction that this influence has the character of a stimulus rather than of a determination. One of the best studied of such influences is the connection between the magnetic field of the sun and the pattern of existence upon the earth. The sun does not condition the earth's climate, nor does it determine the weather.

It can, however, be said that the pattern of terrestrial weather conforms to the sun's magnetic plan. The sun-spot cycles do not so much produce, as evoke, changes of weather. Of deeper significance is the influence of the sun's radiation upon the pattern of life. We cannot suppose that the sun directly produces the pattern of life by the distribution and intensity of radiation. We can, however, account for the arising of different forms of life on the earth as a response of the earth itself, in the form of changing conditions, to the creative power that issues from the sun.

The sun creates, not by doing anything but by being what it is. Nevertheless, in order to be, the sun pours out its own substance without return. If we are to understand the sun as the creator of life's pattern, we must take note of the difference between the relationship of the sun and that of the earth towards our own biosphere. The relationship comprises three modes of individuality. The biosphere itself is the complete manifestation of octopotence. The same individuality is present in the earth and in the sun, but there are, in addition, properties that transcend life and individuality itself. The earth, as we have seen, is but a manifestation of a universal creative activity that it transmits by way of a pattern of existence. The earth establishes the conditions for the life of the biosphere, and at the same time demands a certain pattern of life corresponding to its own needs. There is thus a reciprocal maintenance of existence between the biosphere and the earth. There is no such reciprocity between the sun and the biosphere. The sun is exempt from the needs that permeate the existence of the planets and enable them to evoke the autonomic activity of the biospheres. The demand that is made by the sun is of a different order. The sun requires that all existence subordinate to itself should participate in the fulfilment of the plan of its own existence.

The creative triad: sun-planetary world-biospheres, is limited to the single manifestation of the cosmic plan represented by the being of the sun itself. This limitation is inconceivably stringent; for the sun is but one out of 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000—a thousand million million million—stars. In any one of the sun's recurrences and any one of its actualizations, only an infinitesimal fraction of the potentialities of the universal plan can be realized. The planetary world as we know it is one of these actualizations, and because it represents a fraction so infinitesimal of the totality of possible planetary manifestations, the fate of the universe can scarcely be influenced by whether or not it succeeds in fulfilling the role for which it is created. The existence of the biosphere is completely hazardous and there is no means whatever of predicting to what extent any given biosphere will conform to the pattern of cosmic existence; and there is no reason in any purely statistical assessment why this should matter to the universe, or even to our own galaxy.

A similar conclusion can be reached empirically if we consider the evidence regarding the origin of life upon the earth. It appears that at some time not less than fifteen hundred million years ago, the synthesis of self-catalyzing nucleic acids must have been accomplished. Moreover, a sufficient variety of such substances must have been produced to enable the mutual action of enzymes in the regulation of synthesis to be achieved. It is by no means possible that such a combination could have arisen solely by random combinations in the absence of any organizing influence. On the other hand,' the organizing influence itself could be no more than a pattern of potential energy with a very wide range of variation in the forms in which it could actualize. A high degree of uncertainty must be imported into the interaction of a random combination of the heavy and light elements from which the earth was formed and the organizing pattern derived from solar creativity. This uncertainty stands at the point of intersection of the two streams of involution and evolution and the outcome of the meeting is unpredictable. We meet here the first stirrings of the universal drama, the unfolding of which will lead us into the domains of consciousness and will, and so into the subject-matter of the next volume. We must, for the time being, pursue our own journey and, quitting our cosmic home—the solar system—venture into limitless space in which the next entity we encounter is the Milky Way, the galaxy in which our solar system has its being.