Framework:
The twelfth category completes the cycle of primary experience. All derived powers imply a power that is underived. Since experience discloses the presence of laws, there must also be that element which is a 'law unto itself. We should here mark well the subtle but indubitable distinction between the 'law that knows no law' and the 'law unto itself. The former relates and the latter subsists. We meet in all our experience with the evidences of an element beyond necessity, that acts without dominating, wills without creating, and unifies all possibilities. This element is the autocratic power of the primary affirmation. Nevertheless, we should not regard the twelfth category as terminating the series and exhausting all experience. 

The first twelve can be called 'categories of fact' as distinct from 'categories of value'. These latter cannot enter experience except by way of a new cycle that requires and implies the former and yet can in no way be inferred or derived from it. Autocracy is thus the last category of the natural order, but it is also the precursor of the categories of the moral order. The first twelve categories will suffice for the study of natural philosophy undertaken in the present volume. In the next volume we shall enter the second duodecimal cycle to establish a system of values.

Before leaving the twelfth category we should note that in recognizing one autocratic power as the source of all phenomena we find also the great methodological rule of universal similarity according to which all that we learn from any element of experience should have a bearing upon all other elements. Though creativity itself is free, there is an autocratic master pattern that requires all subordinate patterns to conform to its own ultimate plan. This is the twelfth principle:
Autocracy is the primary affirmation by which all possible experience is brought into existence whether as the potential pattern or the actual process of the universe.

*source: J. G. Bennett's Dramatic Universe, Vol 1: The Foundations of Natural Philosophy
_______________________
LifeWeb:
Over all self-governance within and of the sovereign and autonomous LifeWeb...
_______________________
More from Bennett:
