Framework:
 (MY interpretation) Individuality here refers to complete individuality of the biosphere. (...)  Individuality is the source of initiative residing in organized structures. It may be actualized or potential only. In either case it requires eight independent terms for its exemplification.
 
 *source: J. G. Bennett's Dramatic Universe, Vol 1: The Foundations of Natural Philosophy
_______________________
LifeWeb:
A complete individual here is a transformative ecosystem. What they participate in is the value-adding process. This is recognizable via the presences of a diversity higher-order relations with the bandwidth to exchange value.
_______________________
More from Bennett: 
The eighth category brings us to the recognition of an element of experience that cannot readily be communicated. It is the property of being a free agent, that is, a self. Individuality is foreshadowed in the first category of wholeness and the way to it is opened by the seventh category of structure. The cycle of seven categories exhausts all those characters of existence that lack the property of self-hood. An individual is a self, both as an unique centre of subjective experience and also as a source of initiative.

There resides in true individuality an authentic power of choice and hence the ability to direct and determine the course of events. We cannot find individuality where there is not already structure, but not every structure is eo ipso an individual. That which individualizes a structure can be recognized as a special form of consciousness, but we cannot penetrate into the true nature and significance of individuality until we can recognize it in forms of existence other than our own. Nevertheless, individuality has for us a special importance since it is the pre-eminently human category by which men are distinguished both from animals and from the higher gradations of existence. This must not, however, be taken to mean that all men or even most men truly exemplify the category of individuality; for there is potential individuality that may never become actual, as a seed is a potential plant that may never see the light of day.

The principle of individuality can be stated as follows: Individuality is the source of initiative residing in organized structures. It may be actualized or potential only. In either case it requires eight independent terms for its exemplification.