Framework:
All experience is pervaded by the influence of active sources of the order residing in the patterns of organized structures. Pattern requires not less than nine independent terms. (...) 

The word 'pattern' can be taken in a passive signification as the observed result of an orderly process. Thus we speak of the 'pattern' of a carpet. It can also be understood in a more active sense as that which serves to direct and order the process itself. In this way we speak of a carpet made 'from' a pattern. The order we recognize in the carpet is the pattern and it is also derived from the pattern. The German word 'gesetzmassigkeit', barely translatable into English as 'law-conformableness', conveys some of the twofold transitive and intransitive character of 'patternedness'. The universal significance of pattern is connected with the possibility everywhere and in everything of the affirmation of order in the midst of chaos. We do not, therefore, penetrate to the full significance of pattern as an element of all experience until we recognize that experience would lose all coherence if there were not always and in everything active sources of order. It is in this sense that pattern constitutes the ninth category of experience. It cannot be discovered except by passing through experience of individuality, and this determines its place in the progression of the categories.

*source: J. G. Bennett's Dramatic Universe, Vol 1: The Foundations of Natural Philosophy
_______________________
LifeWeb:
Pattern relates to the ability for communities in transformative ecosystems to generate pathways together, by consciously choosing to manifest regenerative patterns. Regenerative because they are patterned after the biosphere's living systems and aimed at bring greater degrees of aliveness across scales. 

By studying patterns, transformative ecosystems engage in the process of co-learning, whereby communities of practice (the keepers of patterns) track which patterns work well in varying contexts and communities of place (the testers of pattern) make pattern-guided interventions in specific contexts.
_______________________
More from Bennett:

The manner in which the pattern of a superior whole exerts a common organizing influence upon an indefinite number of subordinate wholes is to be observed in the relationship between an organic species and its member organisms. The affirmation of the specific pattern presides over the destiny of each unit organism, and at the same time establishes the conditions of its existence. The individuality of the species transcends the distinction of one and many. The individual differs from the atom because it can divide and yet remain itself. It can be multiplied and yet not lose its identity. This peculiar property, unknown in the hyponomic world, is possible for individuality because its existence is virtual and not actual. The individuality of the biosphere does not consist in the opposition of A and not-A—biosphere and not-biosphere—but in the unity of pattern that makes possible a singleness of affirmation.

We have already remarked upon the transitional character of the biosphere that makes it analogous to the active surfaces which mark the transition from physics to biology. It is an error to regard the biosphere as an organism similar to a plant or an animal, but of a greater complexity and duration of life. The biosphere as an individual does not live. The species and genera live, develop, and transform, but the biospheric pattern remains. The biosphere is an affirmation rather than a manifestation of life. Autonomic existence is manifested in the life and death of organisms. Its nature and destiny are asserted in the pattern of the biosphere.

It has been noted that the biosphere fits over the earth as a glove fits over a hand, and this physical analogy corresponds to the underlying relationship by which the pattern of the biosphere is created. The earth could presumably exist without life, but life as we know it would be impossible except upon the surface of a planet exactly like our own. The physico-chemical conditions on the earth are indeed so exactly attuned to the needs of life that relatively insignificant changes in temperature, in the quality of solar radiation, in the composition of the atmosphere, in the salinity of the oceans and the chemistry of the soil, would be sufficient in a very short space of time to wipe life off the face of the earth. Herein we see that the pattern of the biosphere is something more than the complex system of genetic relationships by which the
 different species of animal and plants are kept in equilibrium. It is a response to the condition of the earth at the present period of the earth's history. In the past, when conditions have been different, the forms of life were quite other than they are today.

We should, however, be wrong to divorce earth and biosphere as two unconnected modes of existence. The biosphere is an individual, but at the same time it is an integral part of the earth itself. We could not conceive the biosphere being peeled off the surface of the earth as the skin is peeled off an onion. It is what it is only so long as it remains a part of the earth's structure.

It is unnecessary further to emphasize the intimate connection between the earth and the biosphere, or to produce evidence that the state of the biosphere depends upon conditions at the earth's surface. Our problem is to understand how the two are related as components of a triad. We are accustomed to look upon the earth only in its hyponomic aspect; that is, as a material system undergoing energy transformations. When we recognize that the biosphere is an integral part of the earth, we see that the earth itself has an autonomic aspect. Neither the one nor the other tells what the earth is as a mode of existence. For this we have to turn generally to the whole planetary system of the universe, and take into account the probability that millions upon millions of planets exist on which there are manifestations of life. According to the progression of the categories, pattern should be the dominant character of the planets as occupants of the ninth existential gradation. This can best be understood if we reflect that life, as an autonomous power, can fulfil its cosmic function only if it has a designated place within the universal order. The pattern of planetary existence endows every entity—able to be sensitive to its influence—with a particular place and destiny. The planets, as the pattern-bearers of the universe, are thus interposed as regulators between the free creative power of the stars and the autonomy of individualized existence.

Passing from the planets to the suns and stars, we see the tenth category of creativity pervading every galaxy and manifesting in the suns, which may be regarded as individual entities existing two stages beyond the upper limit of life. The stars are sometimes compared with atoms, but no analogy could be more misleading; for the principal characteristic of the atoms is their lack of individuation, which makes them interchangeable and indistinguishable. Moreover, the atom is not susceptible of subdivision without ceasing to exist as such. The stars have properties in every way contrary to these. No two stars are identical, nor can the destinies of any two stars be interchanged. They are fully individualized, and yet they are capable of indefinite subdivision. They are complex wholes that comprise among their parts the planetary systems, and within the planetary systems all the limitless variety of autonomic existence. One of the outstanding characteristics of decempotent entities is the manner in which they fulfil their destiny without mutual interference. Interaction between stars is one of the rarest events in the universe—so rare that it has been calculated that two galaxies, each containing a hundred thousand million stars, can pass right through one another with scarcely a collision or even a mutual disturbance between any two stars.

The independence of the stars is the condition of free creativity, and yet they are not cut off from the higher pattern of the galactic systems that constitute the level of undecimpotent existence. Both the stars as such and the galaxies as such are universal manifestations. At each of the three levels we have a characteristic universal affirmation. There is a planetary affirmation that is universal and common to all planetary existence. It is independent of energy exchanges or any other form of communication in space and time. In the limitless variety of planetary patterns, one cosmic role is always enacted; namely, that of establishing the conditions for the arising and development of autonomic existence. Similarly, all suns conform to the one solar quality of free creativity, that with all its variety remains true to one unvarying type. The unity of pattern and the diversity of form that we see in all the heavenly bodies, gives us a key to understanding the common character of all hypernomic existence. We see the diversity, but we can only infer the pattern from our understanding of universal laws.