# How do you perceive the problem you are solving
Changing environmental conditions are underscoring the importance of community resilience. At the heart of these resilient communities lie the essential capabilities required for adaptation. How are these capabilities cultivated? Through learning.

In real-world contexts, almost all learning arises from needing to translate theory into practice, in on-the-ground organising. Current institutional means for resource allocation are failing to nurture the growth of these capabilities, due to lack of visibility and decision-making processes disconnected from local realities. Additionally, many local stakeholders aren't concerned with adopting a technical, text-based UI to make decisions together. Although DAOs might complement the kind of decentralised organising that usually happens in such context, this barrier to entry makes adoption unlikely. That's where Wada and the partnership with Astralship comes in. 

Over the next 12 months, Wada will be collaborating with partners specializing in regenerative design, organizational change, and facilitation of multi-stakeholder innovation processes to implement peer-to-peer learning intensives across their growing network of 11 hubs. The focus? Growing community resilience – and making these learning journeys accessible to those with aligned purpose. 
# What are your reasons for approaching it in the way that you have
Our project tackles these challenges by introducing a user-friendly, video-based interface that simplifies interaction within a DAO framework. This approach not only makes the platform more accessible to a global audience but also leverages the power of visual communication to foster better understanding and engagement among users. By moving away from text-heavy interfaces, Norigumi allows for more natural, intuitive, and engaging discussions, making it easier for people of varied backgrounds to participate in and benefit from a decentralized governance model.

Moreover, traditional DAOs do not typically provide built-in support for mentorship and expert guidance within their platforms. Norigumi innovates in this area by enabling human experts to drop into discussion sessions, offering real-time support and facilitation. This feature is critical for guiding users through the process of structured collaboration and decision-making, ensuring that best practices are followed. The Norigumi interface is specifically optimized to encourage and support best practices in collaboration, integrating elements that are designed to enhance user interaction and effectiveness.

Regeneration starts with the ground: communities with roots (or communities re-rooting). As such, "local nodes" or local learning hubs play a crucial role as spaces where community of practice intersects with community of place. Wada is a network of 11 such hubs, already having focussed on youth engagement and decentralised technologies for several years, with Cardano as a close partner. In this next stage of its evolution, this story is enriched with the partnerships outlined below. 

The partnership descriptions following are underpinned by a layered architecture consisting of: p2p transactions layer (Holochain), federated hub layer (Cardano), integrations layer and presentation layer.

1. Astralship - incubation and decentralised organising: a grassroots systemic innovation lab in North Wales, organising a multi-week hackathon in June with the theme of knowledge commoning and p2p learning. 14 years experience incubating inter-disciplinary teams has lead to the integration of social and technology practices into an overarching facilitation methodology called voyaging. Wada is co-creating this June voyage with the intention to re-create these learning journeys across their network hubs thereafter. In this way, June is a period of developing the capacity to multiply the bioregional nodes in which to seed this p2p learning protocol. **Prototype:** Core to their methodology is a decentralised decision making practice, for which a web conferencing app has been developed, Circles. Learning to reach consensus on proposals this way is a core capability for these hubs to develop. We'd like to integrate Circles with Cardano in many ways, starting with on-chain conversation evolution and contract development. 
2. Mario Yanez - knowledge commoning: a distinguished permaculture systems designer and Schumacher Centre fellow who, at the end of his career, has retrained as a regenerative practitioner. Mario is in the process of completing a PhD on self-organising at the bioregional scale and rewriting the SDGs from a regenerative paradigm. **Prototype:** a knowledge commoning framework designed to organise knowledge by living systems principles, built in [MediaWiki](https://rkc.communitiesforfuture.org/index.php/Main_Page). In June this framework will become the basis for a multi-media, user-centric knowledge-making app, leveraging static site publishing, telegram bots and organisational service integrations: calendar, tasking, accounting. 
3. Holochain - p2p apps: a framework for building distributed p2p apps. We've garnered the enthusiasm of a core holochain developer and the endorsement of holochain itself to join us in June to build upon a prior proof of concept. **Prototype:** During a holochain hackathon in London last year, a p2p exchange mechanism was integrated within Mewsfeed, a holochain clone of twitter. This will become the basis of the p2p learning layer. Holochain is also perfectly suitable as an app framework that can operate without internet, which is needed in many areas where Wada works. We'd like to generate momentum in the following months leading up to the launch of Holo Host in the second half of this year, allowing hApps to run on mobile. 
4. Cardano - from individual to community: Cardano offers the opportunity to address a second scale of system needs, moving from the level of a network of individuals to a network of hubs. Where Holochain suits making visible exchanges at the fringes of the networks, Cardano suits activities and exchanges occurring among hubs and network partners more broadly, such as an on-chain credentials system for talent and recruiters, as well as the implementation of a zero-knowledge proof impact assessment framework to engage potential funders while preserving data privacy. 
5. Institutional impact funders - presentation layer: This project has been being aligned with ongoing conversations with some of the strongest brand names in the regeneration space. 
# Who will your project engage
Our project engages at least six different stakeholder groups across the full scope of work.

1. **Local talent and communities, including farmers:** Local talent and communities, especially farmers, are at the heart of the project. They are the primary beneficiaries of the peer-to-peer learning intensives organized by Wada. By recognising the capabilities to create value already present, and positioning this project as making that value visible, rather than needing to be exported, Wada is positively disrupting the narrative around impact funding whereby those on-the-ground are the ones with the strongest voices. Tangibles: 11 Wada hubs. 

2. **Volunteers, impact entrepreneurs and developer residents:** These hands-on contributions drive the development of decentralized applications and solutions that leverage Cardano's technology for real-world impact. By offering residencies, collaboration, knowledge exchange, and co-creation around exponential technologies is happening in a place-based approach, meaning local and global challenges can begin to be addressed, simultaneously. Tangibles: Cardano network, Regenesis institute alumni network, 

3. **Recruiters:** At its core, Wada's mission is about connecting talent with needs. Businesses near and far will be able to engage in collaborative partnerships with Wada and the Cardano ecosystem to recruit verified talent and/ or support capable teams that align with their business's needs locally. This enhances Cardano's ability to foster economic inclusion and entrepreneurship. This approach strengthens local economies and promotes the adoption of Cardano-based solutions in diverse sectors.

4. **Other hubs:** There's a step-change in potential when going from the level of an individual hub to a network of tech-enabled bioregional learning nodes. This is what makes the partnership between Astralship and Wada so unique, where Astralship is a launch pad to propagate from. Collaborative efforts between hubs across the Wada network multiplies the number of partnerships and innovations possible to integrate within the broader Cardano ecosystem. By sharing knowledge and resources, hubs amplify the impact of Cardano-funded projects. Each hub also becomes a means of on-boarding more people into Cardano, via a context of meeting real needs. 

5. **Impact funders:** Impact funders play a crucial role in supporting the project's implementation and scalability. By providing financial resources, grants, or investments, impact funders enable Wada and its partners to sustainably develop and expand their initiatives. Impact funders may be attracted to the project's focus on community resilience, sustainable development, and decentralized technologies. The project's ability to demonstrate tangible outcomes, measure impact, and preserve data privacy can enhance its attractiveness to potential funders.

6. **Technical partners:** We welcome technical partners to contribute their expertise in dApps, Web3 integrations, and other exponential technologies. The Holochain partnership development demonstrate a commitment to leveraging complementary technologies for a specific needed utility, such as making visible p2p exchanges without stable internet connection. We're particularly interested in training language models for local dialects, where this has already proven to be incredibly engaging in the Welsh context. 
# How will you demonstrate or prove your impact
